doc: quickstart for Go  projects (#3551)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/building-operators/golang/quickstart.md

---
title: Golang Based Operator Quickstart
linkTitle: Quickstart
weight: 10
title: Quickstart for Go-based Operators
linkTitle: QuickStart
weight: 20
description: A simple set of instructions that demonstrates the basics of setting up and running a Go-based operator.
---

**NOTE:** For the SDK versions prior to `v0.19.0` please consult the [legacy docs][legacy_quickstart_doc] for the [legacy CLI][legacy_CLI] and project.

> This guide walks through an example of building a simple memcached-operator using the operator-sdk CLI tool and controller-runtime library API.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to change this line. It's good as is, IMO.

Author: - The note about v0.19 was removed since we have the docs released by version so it is not required at all
- The  second line still but in the description, as we did for helm`description: This guide walks through an example of building a simple memcached-operator using the operator-sdk CLI tool and controller-runtime library API.`

Author: @joelanford we have in the new quick:

````
---
title: Quickstart for Go-based Operators
linkTitle: QuickStart
weight: 20
description: A simple set of instructions that demonstrates the basics of setting up and running a Go-based operator.
---

This guide walks through an example of building a simple memcached-operator powered by Go using tools and libraries provided by the Operator SDK
```

Then see, the next steps: 

```
## Next Steps
Read the [tutorial][tutorial] for an in-depth walkthough of building a Go operator.
```

So, would not make sense keep the same. 

In this way for the tutorial we have: 

```
---
title: Golang Based Operator Tutorial
linkTitle: Tutorial
weight: 30
description: This guide walks through an example of building a simple memcached-operator using the operator-sdk CLI tool and controller-runtime library API.
---
```

Then, we just remove the note ` prior to `v0.19.0` because the docs are tagged already. So, would make sense keep it?

> This guide walks through an example of building a simple memcached-operator powered by Go using tools and libraries provided by the Operator SDK

Reviewer 2: Nit: 

Suggestion for more clarity: 
"...building a simple memcached-operator powered by Go using tools and libraries provided by the Operator SDK"

"...building a simple memcached-operator powered by Go, and using tools and libraries provided by the Operator SDK"

Author: @joelanford any suggestion here? I understand that the above suggesting would be replace it for `This guide builds a simple memcached-operator powered by Go using tools and libraries provided by the Operator SDK`. Are you ok with?

Reviewer: Description is: 
```
A simple set of instructions that demonstrates the basics of setting up and running a Go-based operator.
```

IMO, this should remain as:
```
This guide walks through an example of building a simple memcached-operator using the operator-sdk CLI tool and controller-runtime library API.
```

I think these complement each other well. Alternatively, we could just remove this line completely.

Reviewer: I'm trying to come up with a line that adds something helpful but doesn't duplicate the description, and I can't. I think just remove this line.

Author: I pushed my suggestion. I also think that how less verbosely we are be able to be better it would be.

## Quickstart Steps

### Create a project

Create and change into a directory for your project. Then call `operator-sdk init`

> with the Go plugin to initialize the [base project layout][project_layout]:

Reviewer: Is there a link for this?

Author: Good point. I thought that we have that for all types. Also, should not the CI fail in this case?

Reviewer: I think this syntax is interpretted verbatim when there isn't a link reference because there isn't an actual link to check.

 
```sh
mkdir memcached-operator
cd memcached-operator

> operator-sdk init --repo=github.com/example-inc/memcached-operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operator-sdk init --domain=example.com --repo=github.com/example-inc/memcached-operator
```

Author: the domain is default ` --domain=example.com`. So, do we really need to add it in the quick start?

Reviewer 3: The default is [`my.domain`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/blob/master/pkg/plugin/v3/init.go#L93).

Reviewer: I think this is an important flag to include in the quickstart since pretty much _everyone_ will want to override this for any serious project.

```

### Create an API

Create a simple Memcached API:

```sh
operator-sdk create api --group cache --version v1 --kind Memcached --resource=true --controller=true
```

### Configuring your test environment

> Projects are scaffolded with tests that requires certain Kubernetes server binaries be present locally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects are scaffolded with tests that utilize the [`envtest`](https://godoc.org/sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/envtest)
library, which requires certain Kubernetes server binaries to be present locally:
```

```sh
curl -sSLo setup_envtest.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/master/scripts/setup_envtest_bins.sh 
chmod +x setup_envtest.sh

> ./setup_envtest.sh v1.18.2 v3.4.3

Reviewer: Assuming https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/pull/1615 is merged.
```suggestion
eval $(./setup_envtest.sh v1.18.2 v3.4.3)
```

```

> **Note:** More info can be found [here][env-test-setup].

Reviewer: We need to update this page based on kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder#1615 as well.

Can be done in a follow-up.

Author: Hi @joelanford, 

The envtest doc update was done in: https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/3543
We cannot say here to use the new target anyway because it will be done just for v3 if the PR get merged and we are using v2.

### Build and push the operator image

Use the built-in Makefile targets to build and push your operator. Make
sure to define `IMG` when you call `make`:

```sh

> make docker-build docker-push IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:tag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
make docker-build docker-push IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>
```

```

**NOTE**: To allow the cluster pull the image the repository needs to be
          set as public or you must configure an image pull secret.
          
### Run the operator

Install the CRD and deploy the project to the cluster. Set `IMG` with
`make deploy` to use the image you just pushed:

```sh
make install

> make deploy IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:tag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
make deploy IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>
```

```

### Create a sample custom resource

Create a sample CR:
```sh
kubectl apply -f config/samples/cache_v1_memcached.yaml 
```

Watch for the CR be reconciled by the operator:
```
kubectl logs deployment.apps/memcached-operator-controller-manager -n memcached-operator-system -c manager
```

## Clean up

Delete the CR to uninstall the release:
```sh 
kubectl delete -f config/samples/cache_v1_memcached.yaml
```

To uninstall the operator and its CRDs:
```sh
kustomize build config/default | kubectl delete -f -
```

## Next Steps

> Read the [Tutorial][tutorial] for an in-depth walkthough of building a Go operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the [tutorial][tutorial] for an in-depth walkthough of building a Go operator.
```

---
title: Quickstart for Go-based Operators

> linkTitle: QuickStart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: Quickstart
```

weight: 20
description: A simple set of instructions that demonstrates the basics of setting up and running a Go-based operator.
---

> This guide walks through an example of building a simple memcached-operator powered by Go using tools and libraries provided by the Operator SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks through the steps necessary to quickly build and run a simple Go-based memcached operator.
```

Reviewer: But that's _really_ close to the description still. Yeah, I'd say just remove this line. It's pretty extraneous now that we have the description.

---

This guide walks through an example of building a simple memcached-operator using tools and libraries provided by the Operator SDK.

## Prerequisites

- [Install operator-sdk][operator_install] and its prequisites.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster (v1.16.0+ if using `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1` CRDs).
- User logged with admin permission. See [how to grant yourself cluster-admin privileges or be logged in as admin][role-based-access-control]

## Quickstart Steps

### Create a project

Create and change into a directory for your project. Then call `operator-sdk init`
with the Go plugin to initialize the project. 
 
```sh
mkdir memcached-operator
cd memcached-operator
operator-sdk init --domain=example.com --repo=github.com/example-inc/memcached-operator
```

### Create an API

Create a simple Memcached API:

```sh
operator-sdk create api --group cache --version v1 --kind Memcached --resource=true --controller=true
```

### Configuring your test environment

Projects are scaffolded with tests that utilize the [`envtest`][env-test]
library, which requires certain Kubernetes server binaries to be present locally:

```sh

> curl -sSLo setup_envtest.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/master/scripts/setup_envtest_bins.sh 
> chmod +x setup_envtest.sh
> ./setup_envtest.sh v1.18.2 v3.4.3

Author: ```suggestion
curl -sSLo fetch_ext_bins.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/master/scripts/fetch_ext_bins.sh
chmod +x fetch_ext_bins.sh
. ./fetch_ext_bins.sh && fetch_tools && setup_envs
```

> eval $(./setup_envtest.sh v1.18.2 v3.4.3)

Author: ```suggestion
./setup_envtest.sh v1.18.2 v3.4.3
```

> curl -sSLo fetch_ext_bins.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/master/scripts/fetch_ext_bins.sh
> chmod +x fetch_ext_bins.sh
> . ./fetch_ext_bins.sh && fetch_tools && setup_envs

Author: ```suggestion
curl -sSLo fetch_ext_bins.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/release-0.2/scripts/fetch_ext_bins.sh
chmod +x fetch_ext_bins.sh
. ./fetch_ext_bins.sh && fetch_tools && setup_envs
```

---
title: Quickstart for Go-based Operators
linkTitle: Quickstart
weight: 20
description: A simple set of instructions that demonstrates the basics of setting up and running Go-based operator.
---

This guide walks through an example of building a simple memcached-operator using tools and libraries provided by the Operator SDK.

## Prerequisites

- [Install operator-sdk][operator_install] and its prequisites.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster (v1.16.0+ if using `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1` CRDs).
- User logged with admin permission. See [how to grant yourself cluster-admin privileges or be logged in as admin][role-based-access-control]

## Quickstart Steps

### Create a project

Create and change into a directory for your project. Then call `operator-sdk init`
with the Go plugin to initialize the project. 
 
```sh
mkdir memcached-operator
cd memcached-operator
operator-sdk init --domain=example.com --repo=github.com/example-inc/memcached-operator
```

### Create an API

Create a simple Memcached API:

```sh
operator-sdk create api --group cache --version v1 --kind Memcached --resource=true --controller=true
```

### Configuring your test environment

> Projects are scaffolded with tests that utilize the [`envtest`][env-test]
> library, which requires certain Kubernetes server binaries to be present locally. Update your Makefile by replacing your `test` target with: 

Reviewer: Most of this is captured in the envtest doc. Let's link to the doc in the first sentence, and then have a single imperative action for the user to do:

```suggestion
[Setup the `envtest` binaries and environment][env-test-setup] for your project.

Update your `test` Makefile target to the following:
```

```sh
# Run tests
ENVTEST_ASSETS_DIR=$(shell pwd)/testbin
test: generate fmt vet manifests
        mkdir -p ${ENVTEST_ASSETS_DIR}
        test -f ${ENVTEST_ASSETS_DIR}/setup-envtest.sh || curl -sSLo ${ENVTEST_ASSETS_DIR}/setup-envtest.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/controller-runtime/master/hack/setup-envtest.sh
        source ${ENVTEST_ASSETS_DIR}/setup-envtest.sh; fetch_envtest_tools $(ENVTEST_ASSETS_DIR); setup_envtest_env $(ENVTEST_ASSETS_DIR); go test ./... -coverprofile cover.out
```

> **Note:** More info can be found [here][env-test-setup].

Reviewer: Remove this line, since we link to this doc above the Makefile snippet.

### Build and push the operator image

Use the built-in Makefile targets to build and push your operator. Make
sure to define `IMG` when you call `make`:

```sh
make docker-build docker-push IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>
```

**NOTE**: To allow the cluster pull the image the repository needs to be
          set as public or you must configure an image pull secret.

### Run the operator

Install the CRD and deploy the project to the cluster. Set `IMG` with
`make deploy` to use the image you just pushed:

```sh
make install
make deploy IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>
```

### Create a sample custom resource

Create a sample CR:
```sh
kubectl apply -f config/samples/cache_v1_memcached.yaml 
```

Watch for the CR be reconciled by the operator:
```
kubectl logs deployment.apps/memcached-operator-controller-manager -n memcached-operator-system -c manager
```

## Clean up

> Delete the CR to uninstall the release:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the CR to uninstall memcached:
```

```sh 
kubectl delete -f config/samples/cache_v1_memcached.yaml
```

> To uninstall the operator and its CRDs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uninstall the operator and its CRDs:
```

```sh
kustomize build config/default | kubectl delete -f -
```

## Next Steps
Read the [tutorial][tutorial] for an in-depth walkthough of building a Go operator.

[go_tool]:https://golang.org/dl/
[docker_tool]:https://docs.docker.com/install/
[kubectl_tool]:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/
[operator_install]: /docs/installation/install-operator-sdk
[env-test-setup]: /docs/building-operators/golang/references/env-test-setup
[tutorial]: /docs/building-operators/golang/tutorial/ 

> [env-test]: https://godoc.org/sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/envtest

Reviewer: I think this link is removed based on my other suggestions.

---
title: Golang Based Operator QuickStart
linkTitle: QuickStart
weight: 20
---

## Prerequisites

- [go][go_tool] version v1.13+.
- [docker][docker_tool] version 17.03+.

> - [kubectl][kubectl_tool] version v1.11.3+.

Reviewer: These can probably be removed now that they're listed as prerequisites when installing `operator-sdk`.

> - [operator-sdk][operator_install] v.0.19+

Reviewer: I don't think its necessary to list our own project as a prerequisite. I think that should be obvious.

> - Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster (v1.16.0+ if using `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1` CRDs).
```

> ## Creating a Project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a project
```

Create a directory, and then run the init command inside of it to generate a new project.
 
```sh
$ mkdir $GOPATH/src/memcached-operator
$ cd $GOPATH/src/memcached-operator
$ operator-sdk init 
```

> ## Creating an API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create an API
```

Let's create a new API with `(group/version)` as `cache/v1` and new Kind(CRD) Memcached on it:

```sh

> $ operator-sdk create api --group cache --version v1 --kind Memcached

Author: good idea
